---QUESTION_START---
Module 2:
1.
Today, the mobile application Instagram is thought of exclusively as a photo- and video-
sharing program, but image-sharing was originally the app's main purpose, which was to
allow users to indicate their locations to other users in real time. Only once it became clear
how popular the secondary feature of image-sharing was did the company shift to making
that the app's centerpiece.
Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase?
A subordinate to
B duplicated in
C extracted by
D intrinsic to
[Page: 1]
CORRECT ANSWER: [A]
---QUESTION_START---
2.
The Beirut Stock Exchange in Beirut, Lebanon, connects companies operating in Lebanon with
potential investors. This is a valuable service since the time and expense necessary to find
individual investors might otherwise be for these companies: many of the companies
could not operate if they had to do everything necessary to find investors for themselves.
Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase?
A distinctive
B misconstrued
C prohibitive
D beneficial
[Page: 1]
CORRECT ANSWER: [C]
---QUESTION_START---
3.
A casual description of Scherezade García's 2019 mural Blame It on the Bean: The Power of
Coffee can make the work seem -a painting that is housed in a coffee shop and that
depicts three women drinking coffee may not sound particularly ambitious-but in fact the
work is a complex, dynamic meditation on gender and the legacy of colonialism that
demands serious attention.
Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase?
A incongruous
B shrewd
C pretentious
D unassuming
[Page: 2]
CORRECT ANSWER: [D]
---QUESTION_START---
4.
Some robots such as Actroid (developed in 2003) and Auriga (developed in 2011) are
designed to resemble humans so that people will find it easier to interact with them. To that
end, certain features such as bipedal locomotion can help to people's feelings of
comfort, but a robot that looks too human can fall into the "uncanny valley," meaning that its
appearance unintentionally unsettles those who encounter it.
Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase?
A mitigate
B constrict
C repudiate
D buttress
[Page: 2]
CORRECT ANSWER: [D]
---QUESTION_START---
5.
The Cygne is just one of approximately three million known historical shipwrecks spread
throughout the world's oceans, and their impact on sea life and underwater ecosystems is of
great interest to researchers. Leila Hamdan and colleagues were particularly curious about the
effects of wooden shipwrecks on seafloor microbial communities. The researchers studied
two wooden shipwrecks in the Gulf of Mexico by placing pieces of pine and oak between zero
and 200 meters away from each shipwreck to collect samples of three kinds of microbes:
bacteria, archaea, and fungi. They found that across the three microbial communities, peak
diversity and richness was observed on pine and oak samples placed approximately 125
meters from the shipwrecks.
Which choice best describes the overall structure of the text?
A It states the number of known shipwrecks, describes the historical significance of
one of those shipwrecks, and then comments on the various microbes found at the
shipwreck site.
B It introduces a study of microbial communities near shipwrecks that has received
significant scholarly attention, summarizes the results of that study, and then
describes a research team's reaction to the study.
C It names a famous historical shipwreck, describes the type of wood used to build
that ship, and then explains how that wood type influences underwater microbial
communities.
D It notes a general scientific interest in shipwrecks' ecological effects, describes a
specific study related to that interest, and then states one of the study's findings.
[Page: 3]
CORRECT ANSWER: [D]
---QUESTION_START---
6.
The following text is from Lady Gregory's 1904 play Spreading the News. Mrs. Tarpey, Bartley,
and Mrs. Fallon have been buying and selling goods at the local fair.
MRS. TARPEY: Good morrow, Bartley Fallon; good morrow, Mrs. Fallon. Well, Bartley, you'll
find no cause for complaining to-day; they are all saying it was a good fair.
BARTLEY: (Raising his voice.) It was not a good fair, Mrs. Tarpey. It was a scattered sort of a
fair. If we didn't expect more, we got less. That's the way with me always; whatever I have to
sell goes down and whatever I have to buy goes up. If there's ever any misfortune coming to
this world, it's on myself it pitches, like a flock of crows on seed potatoes.
Which choice best describes the function of the underlined portion in the text as a whole?
A It discusses an event that Mrs. Tarpey believes is unlikely to occur.
B It presents a vivid image to emphasize a claim that Bartley makes.
C It mounts a counterargument to a claim that Bartley made about the fair.
D It describes a scene that Bartley witnessed at the fair.
[Page: 4]
CORRECT ANSWER: [B]
---QUESTION_START---
7.
Community science, which involves professional scientists collaborating with amateur science
enthusiasts to study a topic, is often an effective and engaging way to conduct research. It
can allow people to assist with conservation efforts, spark youth interest in science, and
increase the amount of data researchers can collect. This approach was essential to the
success of a study by biologist Abbigail Merrill and colleagues of how butterfly color relates
to flower choice, which included findings from hundreds of students and community
members in northwestern Arkansas.
Which choice best describes the overall structure of the text?
A It introduces the topic of a scientific study, describes the study's importance, and
then presents the study's results.
B It argues for a new approach to scientific research, comments on the public's
opinion about the approach, and then describes how that approach was applied in
a certain study.
C It describes the development of a type of scientific collaboration, shows how that
type of collaboration has been used in a particular field of study, and then suggests
future collaborative projects.
D It identifies a particular approach to research, lists some benefits of that approach,
and then mentions a study in which that approach was used.
[Page: 5]
CORRECT ANSWER: [D]
---QUESTION_START---
8.
Text 1
In separate studies, Marine Fernandez and colleagues and Hualiang Zhang and colleagues
examined whether plants transfer nutrients to one another using a common mycorrhizal
network (CMN)-a lattice of fungal strands in the soil. Fernandez and colleagues excluded all
pathways other than the CMN by using barriers to keep the plants' root systems separate
while allowing mycorrhizal strands through-a crucial step Zhang and colleagues' study did
not take.
Text 2
Fernandez and colleagues took the necessary precaution of separating the plants' root
systems (thereby excluding root-to-root transmission). However, any barrier used must allow
the thread-like hyphae of a CMN to pass through, and this permeability would also allow
liquids through. Thus, the researchers' experimental design cannot ensure that any nutrient
transfer observed can be attributed to a CMN and not to some other pathway.
Based on the texts, the author of Text 1 and the author of Text 2 would most likely give the
same answer to which question?
A Is there an available barrier material that can block roots and liquids while allowing
fungal strands through?
B Did Zhang and colleagues' study effectively exclude any nutrient pathway other
than a CMN?
C Are the barriers used in Fernandez and colleagues' study sufficient to ensure that
nutrient transfer could only occur via a CMN?
D Do plants that transfer nutrients through a root-to-root pathway also transmit
nutrients via a CMN?
[Page: 6]
CORRECT ANSWER: [B]
---QUESTION_START---
9.
Using the Stratospheric Observatory for Infrared Astronomy (SOFIA), a team of astronomers
mapped out the magnetic field of G47, one of the Milky Way's galactic bones (dense clouds
of gas and dust that run through the middle of the arm of a spiral galaxy). Surprisingly, the
map revealed a magnetic field with no clear pattern or direction. The researchers had
expected the magnetic field to be similar to the more uniform fields seen in galactic bones in
other arms of the Milky Way.
According to the text, what was surprising about the researchers' mapping of the magnetic
field of galactic bone G47?
A It implied that previous mappings of the magnetic field were inaccurate.
B It produced magnetic field measurements similar to those for other galactic bones.
C It revealed a magnetic field that wasn't uniform.
D It showed a weaker magnetic field than expected.
[Page: 7]
CORRECT ANSWER: [C]
---QUESTION_START---
10.
The following text is from Anthony Trollope's 1855 novel The Warden. The narrator is
describing a rectory, the residence of a clergyperson.
There was an air of heaviness about the rooms which might have been avoided without any
sacrifice of propriety; colours might have been better chosen and lights more perfectly
diffused; but perhaps in doing so the thorough clerical aspect of the whole might have been
somewhat marred; at any rate, it was not without ample consideration that those thick, dark,
costly carpets were put down; those embossed, but sombre [wallpapers] hung up; those
heavy curtains draped so as to half exclude the light of the sun.
What does the text most strongly suggest about the rooms in the rectory?
A They are meant to feel comfortable but are in reality uninviting.
B They have been furnished with the intention of maintaining a sense of
appropriateness.
C They are decorated in a style that strikes the narrator as too extravagant.
D They have many decorations the narrator finds good looking but they are not
particularly practical.
[Page: 8]
CORRECT ANSWER: [B]
---QUESTION_START---
11.
The following text is from Nathaniel Hawthorne's 1830 short story Sir William Phips.
Few of the personages of past times (except such as have gained renown in fireside legends
as well as in written history) are anything but mere names to their successors. They seldom
stand up in our Imaginations like men. The knowledge, communicated by the historian and
biographer, is analogous to that which we acquire of a country by the map-minute, perhaps,
and accurate, and available for all necessary purposes, but cold and naked, and wholly
destitute of the mimic charm produced by landscape painting.
Which choice best states the main idea of the text?
A Historians and biographers should write about little-known people as well as
famous people.
B The lives of historical figures are usually documented as a collection of facts, rather
than as a representation of their personalities.
C Historians should record fictional stories told about famous figures as well as
stories that are strictly truthful.
D Paintings may be more beautiful than maps, but maps are more useful than
paintings.
[Page: 9]
CORRECT ANSWER: [B]
---QUESTION_START---
12.
In what is now Minnesota, the Shakopee Mdewakanton Sioux Community operates the
Hoéokata Ti, a cultural center. Relying on traditional knowledge to guide the design of
exhibits, this institution presents Dakota history and culture to the tribe's citizens. The Turtle
Mountain Band of Chippewa, a tribe in North Dakota, employs a similar strategy in its own
cultural center. Both centers contrast with museums that aren't Indigenous-led: when
displaying Indigenous artifacts, such museums tend to anticipate mainly non-Indigenous
audiences and rely on Euro-centric strategies for designing exhibits.
The text best supports which conclusion about the cultural center operated by the Turtle
Mountain Band of Chippewa?
A Its exhibits are likely intended to reconcile Indigenous perspectives with Euro-
centric perspectives.
B Its exhibits likely rely on the traditional knowledge of multiple tribes.
C Its ability to present history and culture to tribal citizens is limited by its physical
size.
D Its exhibits are likely designed for the benefit of audiences consisting mainly of
tribal citizens.
[Page: 10]
CORRECT ANSWER: [D]
---QUESTION_START---
13.
The bird species Saltator grossus (the slate-colored grosbeak), which weighs about 45 grams,
and Microbates collaris (the collared gnatwren), which weighs about 10 grams, share territory
in French Guiana with Thamnomanes caesius (the cinereous antshrike), which emits a loud
alarm call when it detects predators. Biologist Ari Martinez and colleagues, who studied the
ecological community these species share, hypothesized that since there is an inverse
relationship between body size and vulnerability to predation, there will also be an inverse
relationship between body size and sensitivity to predator warning signals from neighboring
species.
Which finding, if true, would most directly support Martinez and colleagues' hypothesis?
A When Martinez and colleagues played T. caesius alarm calls, only bird species
larger than S. grossus displayed predator-avoidance behavior.
B M. collaris displayed predator-avoidance behavior when Martinez and colleagues
played T. caesius alarm calls as well as when the researchers played control sounds
of random noise.
C Many bird species smaller than S. grossus displayed predator-avoidance behavior
in response to T. caesius alarm calls played by Martinez and colleagues, but none
smaller than M. collaris did.
D M. collaris displayed predator-avoidance behavior in response to T. caesius alarm
calls played by Martinez and colleagues, whereas S. grossus did not.
[Page: 11]
CORRECT ANSWER: [D]
---QUESTION_START---
14.
Scholars cite Mr. President, the 1946 novel by Guatemalan author Miguel Ángel Asturias, as a
foundational text of magical realism, the Latin American style of fiction in which antirealistic
plot devices-often borrowed from the spiritual and narrative traditions of Indigenous and
colonial societies in the Americas-are deployed in an otherwise realistic mode of
representation typical of the modern novel. This style has exerted a decisive influence on
authors around the world, including Olga Tokarczuk, whose 1996 novel Primeval and Other
Times resembles classic magical realist novels in its juxtaposition of literary realism with
folklore namely, that of Poland.
Which quotation from a literary scholar would most directly support the claim in the
underlined portion of the text?
A "Like many works in the Latin American magical realist tradition, Primeval and
Other Times is indebted to antirealistic elements in the folklore of Poland."
B "While Primeval and Other Times alternates between realistic and antirealistic
modes of representation, details suggesting the influence of Polish folklore
nevertheless occur throughout the novel."
C "Although Polish folklore clearly informs the style and occasionally antirealistic plot
of Primeval and Other Times, the novel also shows the inarguable influence of the
magical realist tradition of Latin America."
D "The logic of the realistic plot of Primeval and Other Times is repeatedly and
productively disrupted by the presence of imagery and situations drawn from
Polish folklore."
[Page: 12]
CORRECT ANSWER: [D]
---QUESTION_START---
15.
The Bronze Age in Britain lasted from around 2500 BCE to approximately 700 BCE. Collections
of metal items (called hoards) from all periods of the Bronze Age have been found in Britain,
including the Arreton Down hoard of artifacts from the 17th century BCE, unearthed around
1735, and the much later Hollingbourne hoard of artifacts from the 10th century BCE,
unearthed around 2003. Sometime in the Middle Bronze Age (approximately from the 14th
century BCE to the 10th century BCE), metalsmiths in Britain began to develop swords for the
first time. This fact helps explain why, whereas evidence of sword production was found in
Which choice most logically completes the text?
A both the Arreton Down hoard and the Hollingbourne hoard, only the latter
included evidence of more refined sword production.
B hoards discovered before 2003, no such evidence was found in hoards that were
discovered later.
C the Arreton Down hoard, no intact swords were found among the items in the
hoard.
D the Hollingbourne hoard, no such evidence was found in the Arreton Down hoard.
[Page: 13]
CORRECT ANSWER: [D]
---QUESTION_START---
16.
Mongolia, which, according to international indices, has relatively strong democratic
institutions and low intranational income inequality, experienced an inflation rate of 4.30% in
2017, whereas Cameroon, which shows the opposite pattern on such indices, had an inflation
rate of only 0.64% that year. Such comparisons have engendered speculation that by diluting
control over the economy, democratic institutions inhibit states' ability to counteract
inflationary pressures. To test this possibility systematically, Raj Desai et al. examined
democratic strength, intranational inequality, and inflation in more than 100 countries, finding
that democratic strength, if associated with low inequality, restrains inflationary pressures,
suggesting that
Which choice most logically completes the text?
A it would be a mistake to treat the relative inflation rates of Mongolia and
Cameroon as indicative of an inherent shortcoming in democratic institutions with
regard to control over inflation.
B speculations about the relative inability of democratic institutions to counteract
inflation are based on measures that tend to exaggerate the levels of inflation in
strongly democratic countries such as Mongolia.
C the factors that contributed to Mongolia's elevated inflation rate relative to
Cameroon's have less to do with the countries' political institutions than with the
countries' levels of income inequality.
D the difference between Mongolia and Cameroon with regard to democratic
institution strength may have been greater in 2017 than was represented by
international indices.
[Page: 14]
CORRECT ANSWER: [A]
---QUESTION_START---
17.
During the decades-long movement to codify the rights of Latinos in the US, certain events
were pivotal: the founding of veteran rights group the American GI Forum in Mendez v.
Westminster court decision in 1946, which affirmed the rights of Latino students, is another
such event.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English?
A 1948, for one. The
B 1948. For one, the
C 1948, for one, the
D 1948 for one, the
[Page: 15]
CORRECT ANSWER: [A]
---QUESTION_START---
18.
Sociologist Alton Okinaka sits on the review board tasked with adding new sites to the
Hawai'i Register of Historic Places, which includes Menehune Fishpond, a historic Hawaiian
fishpond, and the Wailuku School, built in 1904. Okinaka doesn't make such decisions single-
handedly, historical designations must be approved by a group of nine other experts.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English?
A however. All
B however all
C however and all
D however, all
[Page: 15]
CORRECT ANSWER: [A]
---QUESTION_START---
19.
Photographer Máiria Švarbová has reached audiences well beyond her home country of
Slovakia. In 2016, her work was featured at an international photography festival in the
exhibited photographs, with their vivid pastel colors, overexposed tones, and mirror like
symmetry, captivated audiences.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English?
A Italy, for example;
B Italy, for example,
C Italy; for example,
D Italy, for example
[Page: 16]
CORRECT ANSWER: [A]
---QUESTION_START---
20.
Recently unearthed Neronian tools in France dating to 54,000 years ago and attributed to
Homo sapiens may provide evidence that interactions between Neanderthals and modern
humans occurred 10,000 years earlier than was previously finding that, if true, would
overturn current theories about H. sapiens migration during the Upper Paleolithic.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English?
A supposed a
B supposed. A
C supposed, a
D supposed; a
[Page: 16]
CORRECT ANSWER: [C]
---QUESTION_START---
21.
Though he's performed on many respected albums, including Loud Jazz by John Scofield,
drummer Dennis Chambers may be best known for his time as house drummer for the hip-
hop label Sugar Hill Records. He did not play drums on the label's classic song "Rapper's
he joined the label after the song's release.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English?
A Delight." However,
B Delight," however;
C Delight," however,
D Delight" however
[Page: 17]
CORRECT ANSWER: [B]
---QUESTION_START---
22.
Scientists were able to isolate a relatively pure sample of neon in 1898, the same year they
first discovered the element's existence. The isolation process took longer for erbium,
which was isolated in its pure form 91 years after scientists first discovered it.
Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition?
A For instance,
B By contrast,
C Thus,
D Similarly,
[Page: 17]
CORRECT ANSWER: [B]
---QUESTION_START---
23.
The method used in 1920 by the US Geological Survey to calculate the geographic center of
Wyoming, involving a cardboard cutout of the state and a piece of string, seems rudimentary
today. the center found in a 2015 study using far more advanced technology differed
from the original by just a few miles, proving the original method to be relatively accurate.
Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition?
A For example,
B That said,
C As such,
D In other words,
[Page: 18]
CORRECT ANSWER: [B]
---QUESTION_START---
24.
With many elements, like neon, scientists were able to isolate a relatively pure sample of the
substance shortly after discovering its existence-but this wasn't the case with all elements.
the isolation process took years. The element erbium, for instance, was discovered in
1843 but not isolated until 1934.
Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition?
A However,
B Thus,
C Sometimes,
D Moreover,
[Page: 18]
CORRECT ANSWER: [C]
---QUESTION_START---
25.
Though Middle English was widely spoken in fourteenth-century England, the English
language was rarely employed in literature until poet Geoffrey Chaucer helped pioneer its
literary use. his manuscripts contain the first documented uses of over 2,000 English
words-like the word "digestion" in his 1395 poem The Squire's Tale-which led a
contemporary to dub him "the first finder of our fair language."
Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition?
A That being said,
B Indeed,
C Besides,
D However,
[Page: 19]
CORRECT ANSWER: [B]
---QUESTION_START---
26.
While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
• Merle Oberon (1911-1979) was an actress born in Mumbai (then known as Bombay), India.
• She was of Indian, Maori, and Irish heritage.
• She was the first Indian-born actress to be nominated for an Academy Award.
• Early in her career, she played many nameless, uncredited roles, such as her role in Strange
Evidence (1933).
• Later, she played many named, credited roles, such as Jill Baker in That Uncertain Feeling
(1941).
Which choice most effectively uses information from the given sentences to specify Merle
Oberon's role in That Uncertain Feeling (1941)?
A Merle Oberon was an Indian-born actress who performed in many films, including
Strange Evidence (1933) and That Uncertain Feeling (1941).
B Merle Oberon's story begins in Mumbai (then known as Bombay), India, in 1911.
C In 1941, Indian-born actress Merle Oberon played the role of Jill Baker in the film
That Uncertain Feeling.
D Though she would go on to receive credit in many films, Merle Oberon started her
career playing uncredited, nameless roles in films such as Strange Evidence (1933).
[Page: 20]
CORRECT ANSWER: [C]
---QUESTION_START---
27.
While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
• Auteur theory is a view of filmmaking that positions the director as the primary author of a
film.
• This now dominant theory was coined by film critic Andrew Sarris.
• In a 1963 rebuttal, film critic Pauline Kael argued that film authorship should be shared
among screenwriters, directors, and others involved in the filmmaking process.
• In a 2006 book, film critic David Kipen proposed "schreiber theory."
• Schreiber theory repositions the screenwriter as the primary author of a film.
The student wants to compare Kipen's theory of film authorship with Sarris's. Which choice
most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal?
A In repositioning the screenwriter (not the director) as the primary author of a film,
schreiber theory presents an alternative to the dominant auteur theory.
B Film critics Andrew Sarris and David Kipen hold the view that film authorship
should be shared among those involved in the filmmaking process.
C In a 1963 rebuttal to Sarris's theory that a director is the primary author of a film,
Kael proposed that screenwriters should instead be given sole authorship.
D Kipen's theory of film authorship contrasts with that of Kael, who famously argued
against Sarris's auteur theory in 1963.
[Page: 21]
CORRECT ANSWER: [A]